# Math 1 

Math 1 is meant to be taken in 6th grade and is a basic introduction to the concepts in algebra. It dives deaper into some algebra concepts than traditional 6th grade math classes and is definitely a more abstract class. This definitely presents the challenge of getting students interested in abstract concepts as many times abstract ideas in math are unmotivated until years down the line. However, I hope to subsitute this heavy emphasis on abstract math with significant exploration of the ideas/formulas/equations themselves. Being allowed to explore why the distributive property works and is interesting is much more engaging than just being told it exists and to use it. 

## Chapter 1 

Chapter 1 is a bare bones introduction to the year. It talks about addition and multiplication, topics students will already have been very familiar with up to this point, in a much more abstract context. We denounce the evils of subtraction and division in favor of multiplicative and additive inverses and introduce the concept of an "identity." 

The abstract nature of this introduction to operations is meant to directly lead into the ideas of functions such that hopefully working with functions will become much easier down the line. The idea of an inverse is much more important later on in math (and especially in functions) and it is common that students are unable to fully grasp the concept of an inverse function until after years of working with them. The other objective is to give students a refresher as to what the two operations are actually doing, hopefully allowing them to use them in algebra more effectively. 

## Chapter 2 

Chapter 2 is aimed as continuing what was talked about in chapter 1 by explaning what the inverse for multiplication is, multiplying by fractions. The big challenge with this chapter is explaining fractions without the concept of division. Instead, we talk about fractions through the lens of groups and taking parts of those groups. This hopefully allows students to recognize the connection to multiplication much more readily and therefore understand how to work with fractions much better. 

Fractions cause many issues in math even through calculus. They are not taught very well often and that can leave students lost as to how to simplify more complex equations with nested fractions. My hope is to at least side-step the issues surrounding fractions with multiplication and division by not only introducing only multiplication (no division), but also demonstrating better how fractions are the direct inverse of multiplication. From helping many people through various algebra intensive assignments, there is significant trouble when having to divide off a fraction or move multiple terms from one side of an equation to another through multiplication/division. People are never sure if they need to flip the fractions, how to deal with a triple fraction, or really what it means to divide by a fraction. I really want to avoid this as fractions are super powerful and necessary later on in algebra and a good foundation in fractions is possibly one of the better things a 6th grade student can recieve. 

## Chapter 3

Chapter 3 introduces students to the very basics of algebra. Concepts like variables and simplification are central to this chapter and are used to push students to develop some understanding of constructing algebraic rules themselves (assosiative property, distributive property, etc). 

Variables and expressions are introduced as simply being values, values that can be moved around and simplified. The intent here is to really emphasize the idea that even if you are doing math with letters, they are still just numbers and can be treated the same. If accomplished correctly, this should hopefully solve a major issue I see with some students where they are unable to work with variables as they tend to scare them or they believe they behave differently. It is common to ask a student to solve an equation with only numbers and for them to do it with no issues, but as soon as you replace all those numbers with variables, they can't solve it. Even if you give them both problems, they just don't see it as the same problem. This can be a major issue when dealing with values like π or e (and essentially all of physics) when students just subsitute in 3.14 or 2.72 and then don't see massively important simplification steps because of this need to use rounded decimals. Of course, this emphasis on a specific way to use variables as well as using variables in general is going to need a lot of practice and in no way is this chapter alone going to teach them all they need to know. Variables are going to be constantly revisited throughout middle school to insure that students can really understand how to use them. 

The other major focus of this chapter, algebraic simplification, is the main skill students will be developing over their next 7 years of math and it is really important that they understand how it works and what they are doing. Here we are really only talking about combining values together through their various operations and how to use order of operations, but this will be built into a more thorough understanding of how to generally simplify equations with many variables and values. There is some exploration of combining like terms in the problems where the intent is to allow students to figure out how to perform this simplification themselves rather than a teacher just throwing out the phrase "combining like terms" over and over and telling students what it means. There is no reason to give addition and multiplication with numbers a different name just because those numbers are now represented with variables instead of base 10 digits. It only makes variables seem more confusing and less like actual numbers, two things that are harmful for students' algebraic skills. 

